== map ==

         1.colony#1		5.colony#2    8.ice pole
				    4.alien_civ	
		    2.caves 		    9.underground sky
        6.desert    3.grassland
	  7.water 
			        10.magma

========
summary:
========

space prospecting
mining colony
two different bases
seemingly uninhabited planet
struck some foreign structure 
began to investigate
found an underground cave structure 
followed the minerals in it
contacted their home base company 
that told them to investigate further
found monsters that killed some of the crew
that's when they tried to escape
base 1 managed to leave
base 2 rocket failed
and team 2 fled to the caves
you are one of the robots that got left behind

section 1. - colony #1 whose rocket left
you start off not knowing what's going on
computer terminals tell you that colony #1's team had just left in an escape rocket
- and that the weapons cache is unlocked, and gives you a blaster
(secret: find one team member that died when activating you, get his keycard)
you go down, underground the mining operation
learn from terminal that monsters invaded 
find first monsters
keep going to find first boss in the edge of the base - big evil alien monster
find some doors are now unlocked
get some first powerup ... 'lifting gloves' or something
(from then on, go back and find the monsters repopulated the base)
[section 1 first leads to section 2]
[section 1 can see the door to secret weapon , access from next section plot point]
	[this secret has access with first secret keycard to a rocket booster]

section 2. - mining caves
next you enter into the caves
there are some hints of alien civilization
and still lots of monsters
and some rogue robots
you find a few of the survivors
someone is talking about how bad the monsters are
find another boss - king of the evil robots
(side quest: someone is talking about something they left back in the mining base
	take their keycard, go back to an extra room, fight another miniboss,
	get a powerup -- better weapon.
	if you have the first secret keycard then you can find a rocket booster part.)
keep going to find the entrance to the grassland
[section 2 can see a door to the section 6 -- desert -- access with grappling or something]
[section 2 leads to section 3]

section 3. - underground grassland
(by this point if you haven't found the first secret keycard, it goes away)
boss
grassland has trees and forests in it
still only monsters
find more survivors who are building cabins and stuff like that
they tell you they're established things aren't so bad out there
maybe find a piece of the failed rocket, someone asks you if it'll help
they ask you to look them up if a rescue ship ever comes

section 4. - underground alien civilization
keep going to find a town of native aliens to the planet
they're surprised you exist, you're surprised they exist
they tell you about some evil monsters that are plaguing them
that's the next boss
then you tell them about the humans lost in the caves
	the native aliens help rescue some of them
aliens then lead humans to the surface where colony #2 is

section 5. - colony #2 whose rocket didn't leave
make it to the first colony, next to the second
find yet another rocket booster piece 
(side quest: collect all parts to launch the rocket)
find the place overrun with monsters
fight a boss, get an item.
humans re-settle here
... try to up establish communications back to earth
... craft you a better weapon ...
humans know they're going to need some resources for the long stay while waiting to evacuate
  aliens point you to the water sector for fresh water

section 6. - desert area before water area
gotta go through the desert to get to the water
find another kind of aliens that tell you the first ones are bad
or something like that
they're fighting or something
idk bff jill
boss
get to water area

section 7. - water area
water area
fight boss
flip switch
go back to human colony, find they have water, get a reward or something, another item
	find that comm hasn't worked, you need to go to the pole to avoid rad belt or something
monster fight happens
	get new item

section 8. - ice pole
another boss fight
another item
or something
setup communications relay
... maybe you get the message out, maybe you don't
go back to human colony, find all is well
aliens say they got attacked or something
talk to them, start a fight between civilizations or something
they tell you go to underground sky area to fight the baddies
maybe secret space elevator to orbiting space colony? or something?

section 9.
underground sky
find more stuff
jetpack etc
boss
item
etc
moar boss

section 10.
magma area
fight the end boss of the whole game
ending #1: boss dies, planet dies
	- if humans got rescue message out then they get taken back
		- if aliens and humans coop they can go back too
	- if you got your rocket ship then you take off
run back to the surface
find the humans getting rescued in time
you have the choice to leave there
or ... secret ending ... if you got all the rocket pieces 
	then you take the rocket to the next planet of the evil alien home world 
	... and if you failed on the rescue comm *and* got all rocket pieces
		... then you take the humans back with you
	otherwise maybe an alien or two or something? idk bff gil

==========
details:
==========

you wake up
at the space colony
everyone's gone
temrinal says:
	"evacuation orders given"
	"proceed to launchpad 1 for immediate departure"

another terminal says "weapon storage override"
and you get the the blaster appears (default max ammo 5 cells, slowly recharges)

another says
	"surface output.  proceed west to mining colony."

(secret: 
	go left
	crawl through tunnels
	climb down the ladder
	find one last scientist left behind
	another terminal reads
		"I'm going to activate the defense robot
		maybe he can protect me from these creatures..."
	...and then you find his keycard -- for use later
)

go left you find the former launchpad from where the rocket had just took off.

keep going left and you find the entrance to the caves below the base

from there you maybe find some red sirens that are blinking

down in the base you find another terminal
	"Emergency alarm deactivated." (and the sirens stop)

another terminal:
	"Journal Entry:
	When mining in the crust of this planet we
		stumbled across a unique cave system.
	Not sure how they were formed.
		The minerals seem to proceed through the caves.
	The prospecting company is eager for us to follow."


super metroid level sizes

super metroid bosses & minibosses
1. chozo in crateria
2. spore spawn in brinstar
3. kraid in brinstar
4. crocomire in norfair
5. phantoon in wrecked ship
6. snake dude in maridia
7. dragoon in maridia
8. chozo in norfair
9. ridley in norfair
10. mother brain in tourian

cave story bosses:
1. balrog in the shack in mimiga village
2. evil mimiga Igor in the egg corridor
3. balrog at bomb robot's house in grasstown
4. evil mimiga in the upper room in grasstown
5. balrog as a frog at gum base room in grasstown
6. curly brace in sand zone
7. omega in the sand zone
8. evil mimiga Toroko in the storehouse in the sand zone
9. pooh black--that ghost in the old hospital in labyrinth
10. monster x in labyrinth
11. balrog immediately after in labyrinth
12. undead core immediately after in labyrinth
13. ironhead--that one fish in the reservoir
14. the sisters--dragons in egg corridor v2
15. ma pignon--mushroom in mimiga village
16. red demon in the last cave
17. misery in the throne room
18. the doctor v1 in the throne room
19. the doctor v2 in the throne room
20. the undead core
21. heavy press in hell
22. ballos first form
23. ballos second form
24. ballos third form
25. ballos final form
